Okay, let's go ahead and run our application
using an embedded H2 database
and we'll test out the updates
that we made for that thymeleaf template
in student information .html.
Now, remember you have the option
of running your application from the command line
or you can run the MVC testing example application directly
in the IDE.
It's totally up to you.
Already our app is up and running.
We'll go to localhost:1500
and we'll simply just go through and add some data.
So we'll add some data here for Darby
and we'll also add some data here for Eric Roby.
We'll move into my account here
and I'll add some new grades for Math,
and notice here how the average is updating accordingly
and the grades are being added there.
So we know that our Thymeleaf template is working
as far as managing grades here, as far as adding grades.
Now let's go ahead and delete some grades, right?
So we see that our delete grade feature is working.
Now, let me move back to our home screen
and we'll add some grades here for Eric
or we're just repeating a process here
just to show that we can have grades
for different students in our system.
Okay, all of this looks for pretty good.
Now, what I'd like to do is move back over to my IDE
and I like to stop the application.
And now let's go ahead and try and access our app right now
at localhost:1500, nothing works
because there's no server listening on 1500, right?
It'll eventually time out, no problem.
Swing back over here and actually start our application.
And now we swing that go into the browser.
And now we see that, hey our application's up and running,
but where's our data?
We just spent all this time adding data for Darby, Eric Roby
but now everything's blank.
What happened?
Well, when we make use of the embedded H2 database
it only keeps the data in memory.
So once you stop the application
then all the data is lost and Ugh, that's not really good.
Now the embedded H2 database is really good for testing
and unit testing, because it's all kind of designed for that.
But as far as, keeping track of information
once the database stops or the application stops
that's not its main purpose.
Now you can run the H2 database as a standalone database
but it's not really designed for that.
We can resolve this
by using a standalone database such as MySQL.
In the next set of videos we'll go through
and we'll start setting up the process
of having our application connect to MySQL
and we'll cover that in the next set.
So I'll see you in the next video.